README.md, before:

# @vezine/react-ui-plugins

A React library providing a custom hook for rendering an array of plugins with optional dependencies.

## Installation

To install the library, use npm or yarn:

```bash
npm install @vezine/react-ui-plugins
# or
yarn add @vezine/react-ui-plugins
```

## Usage

The `usePluginRenderer` hook simplifies the rendering of plugin components in a React application. It manages the state of the transformed data provided by each plugin and ensures that the data is updated whenever the specified dependencies change.

### Example

Here is an example of how to use the `usePluginRenderer` hook:

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { usePluginRenderer } from '@vezine/react-ui-plugins';
import { SamplePlugin } from './plugins/SamplePlugin';

const plugins = [SamplePlugin()];

const MyComponent = () => {
  const { renderPlugins } = usePluginRenderer(plugins, []);

  return (
    <div>
      {renderPlugins()}
    </div>
  );
};

export default MyComponent;
```

### Example Plugin

Below is an example of a plugin implementation using the `createPagePlugin` utility:

```tsx
import { createPagePlugin } from "../../../utils/pagePlugin.utils";
import SampleComponent from "../SampleComponent";

export const SamplePlugin = () =>
  createPagePlugin<{ title?: string; description?: string }>({
    transformData: () => {
      return {
        title: "Sample Title",
        description: "This is a sample description for the plugin.",
      };
    },
    render: ({ title, description } = { title: "" }) => {
      return <SampleComponent title={title} description={description} />;
    },
  });
```

## API

### usePluginRenderer

A custom hook for rendering an array of plugins with optional dependencies.

#### Type Parameters

- `T`: The type of the plugins. Each plugin should conform to the `PagePlugin` interface.
- `K`: The type of the dependencies. These are used to determine when to re-run the effect that processes the plugin data.

#### Parameters

- `plugins` (`T[]`): The array of plugins to render. Each plugin should have a `transformData` method to process data and a `render` method to return a React element.
- `deps` (`K[]`, optional): The array of dependencies to watch for changes. When any dependency changes, the plugin data is re-processed.

#### Returns

An object containing the `renderPlugins` function.

- `renderPlugins` (`function`): A function that returns an array of React nodes representing the rendered plugins.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

update readme docs with the "why"

README.md, after:

# @vezine/react-ui-plugins

A React library providing a custom hook for rendering an array of plugins with optional dependencies.

## Why is this useful?

Building feature-heavy React components can often lead to extensive and complex render functions, making it difficult to maintain and extend the codebase. This complexity can result in confusion and increased risk of introducing bugs when adding new features or modifying existing ones.

### Benefits of Plugin Architecture

- **Modularity**: Each plugin component is developed and maintained in isolation, ensuring that changes in one plugin do not affect others.
- **Maintainability**: Isolated plugin components simplify the code structure, making it easier to understand, maintain, and debug.
- **Scalability**: The plugin architecture allows you to add new features easily by simply integrating new plugins, promoting a scalable and flexible codebase.
- **Reduced Risk**: By isolating features into separate plugins, you minimize the risk of breaking existing functionality when introducing changes.

### Example Scenario

Consider a dashboard application with various widgets such as charts, tables, and forms. Using a plugin architecture, each widget can be developed as a separate plugin. This approach allows developers to focus on individual widgets without worrying about the overall dashboard complexity. New widgets can be added or existing ones modified independently, ensuring the dashboard remains robust and maintainable.

By adopting a plugin architecture, you can enhance the modularity, maintainability, and scalability of your React components, leading to a more manageable and flexible codebase.

## Installation

To install the library, use npm or yarn:

```bash
npm install @vezine/react-ui-plugins
# or
yarn add @vezine/react-ui-plugins
```

## Usage

The `usePluginRenderer` hook simplifies the rendering of plugin components in a React application. It manages the state of the transformed data provided by each plugin and ensures that the data is updated whenever the specified dependencies change.

### Example

Here is an example of how to use the `usePluginRenderer` hook:

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { usePluginRenderer } from '@vezine/react-ui-plugins';
import { SamplePlugin } from './plugins/SamplePlugin';

const plugins = [SamplePlugin()];

const MyComponent = () => {
  const { renderPlugins } = usePluginRenderer(plugins, []);

  return (
    <div>
      {renderPlugins()}
    </div>
  );
};

export default MyComponent;
```

### Example Plugin

Below is an example of a plugin implementation using the `createPagePlugin` utility:

```tsx
import { createPagePlugin } from "@vezine/react-ui-plugins";
import SampleComponent from "../SampleComponent";

export const SamplePlugin = () =>
  createPagePlugin<{ title?: string; description?: string }>({
    transformData: () => {
      return {
        title: "Sample Title",
        description: "This is a sample description for the plugin.",
      };
    },
    render: ({ title, description } = { title: "" }) => {
      return <SampleComponent title={title} description={description} />;
    },
  });
```

## API

### usePluginRenderer

A custom hook for rendering an array of plugins with optional dependencies.

#### Type Parameters

- `T`: The type of the plugins. Each plugin should conform to the `PagePlugin` interface.
- `K`: The type of the dependencies. These are used to determine when to re-run the effect that processes the plugin data.

#### Parameters

- `plugins` (`T[]`): The array of plugins to render. Each plugin should have a `transformData` method to process data and a `render` method to return a React element.
- `deps` (`K[]`, optional): The array of dependencies to watch for changes. When any dependency changes, the plugin data is re-processed.

#### Returns

An object containing the `renderPlugins` function.

- `renderPlugins` (`function`): A function that returns an array of React nodes representing the rendered plugins.

## License

MIT
